{
	"title": "Treatment of Metal Wastestreams",
	"date": "2019-07-24T10:33:13-07:00",
	"Description": "course detail",
	"courseType": "Wastewater Courses and Manuals",
	"parentlink": "/operator-training/courses/correspondence-courses/wastewater-courses",
	"Tags": [],
	"Categories": [],
	"draft": false,
	"img": "/img/courses/med/tmw.jpg",
	"objective" : "This course is designed to train personnel to safely and effectively operate and maintain wastewater treatment facilities for electroplating, metal finishing, and printed circuit board manufacturing.",
	"scope": "This course is designed to train operators in the practical aspects of operating and maintaining treatment plants that receive wastewater from electroplating, metal finishing, and printed circuit board manufacturing facilities. Information is presented on the need for treatment of metal wastestreams, sources of wastewater, safety data sheets (SDSs), and the globally harmonized system of classification and labeling of chemicals (GHS). Operators learn to operate and maintain the equipment and processes used to treat metal wastestreams and how to treat and dispose of sludges produced by the treatment processes. This course focuses on actual operation, maintenance, and troubleshooting procedures, with particular emphasis on safety. Operators also learn to solve arithmetic problems needed to operate treatment processes for metal wastestreams.",
	"ceu": "4.5 CEUs (45 contact hours)",
	"edition": "4th Edition, 2013",
	"isbn": "ISBN 978-1-59371-065-1",
	"time_limit": "6 months",
	"table_index": [
	{
		"title": "Need for Treatment and Employee Safety",
		"text": "<p>Following completion of Chapter 1, you should be able to: <ol><li>Explain the need to treat metal wastestreams.</li><li>Identify the sources of metal wastestreams.</li><li>Obtain information on how to safely store and handle chemicals from a safety data sheet (SDS).</li><li>Determine what information employers must provide to operators regarding the handling of and exposure to hazardous materials in the workplace (worker Right-To-Know laws).</li></ol></p>"
	},
	{
		"title": "Methods of Treatment",
		"text": "<p>Following completion of Chapter 2, you should be able to: <ol><li>Describe each of the methods used to treat metal wastes and how each method treats the wastestream.</li><li>Identify batch and continuous treatment processes and describe the conditions in which each type of process is used.</li><li>Collect, treat, and dispose of sludge generated by these treatment processes.</li><li>Operate and maintain treatment facilities for neutralization, metal precipitation, complexed metals removal, hexavalent chromium reduction, and destruction of cyanide by oxidation.</li></ol></p>"
	},
	{
		"title": "Operation and Maintenance (O&M)",
		"text": "<p>Following completion of Chapter 3, students should be able to: <ol><li>Perform operation and maintenance duties safely at metal wastestream treatment facilities.</li><li>Troubleshoot and resolve issues at metal wastestream treatment facilities.</li><li>Explain how oxidation-reduction potential is used and controlled to treat metal wastestreams.</li><li>Describe the purpose of analytical laboratory support for treatment facilities.</li></ol></p>"
	}],
	"other_sections": [
		"Comprehensive Review",
		"How to Solve Treatment of Metal Wastestreams Arithmetic Problems",
		"Index"
	],
	"enrollments": "$50 USD",
	"manual": "$60 USD",
	"course_package": "$110 USD",
	"instructor_guide": "Instructor guides provide a set of chapter tests and answer keys for verified instructors. The guides are not available for sale online. Customers must meet our instructor criteria to order this item. Please call customer service for pricing and ordering requirements at (916) 278-6142.",
	"preview_link" : "http://www.owp.csus.edu/courses/preview/tmw.pdf",
	"cartbtn": "abcd.html"
}